{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 PRIMARY SOURCE:\
Institute for Local Self-Reliance (iLSR)\
https://ilsr.org/dollar-stores-target-cities-towns-one-fights-back/
\f1\b0 \
\
\
\

\f0\b Civil Eats\

\f1\b0 https://civileats.com/2018/12/17/dollar-stores-are-taking-over-the-grocery-business-and-its-bad-news-for-public-health-and-local-economies/\
\

\f0\b Dollar Stores Are Taking Over the Grocery Business, and It\'92s Bad News for Public Health and Local Economies\
\

\f1\b0 \'93Today, there are more dollar stores in the United States than all Walmarts and Starbucks combined. These low-priced \'93small-box\'94 retailers, like Dollar General, offer little to no fresh food\'97yet they feed more Americans than either Trader Joe\'92s or Whole Foods, and are gaining on the country\'92s largest food retailers.\'94\
\
\'93Detailing the explosion of dollar stores in rural and low-income areas, the Institute for Local Self-Reliance (ILSR) recently released a report that shows how these retailers exacerbate economic and public health disparities. The report makes the case that dollar stores undercut small rural grocers and hurt struggling urban neighborhoods by staving off full-service markets.\'94\
\
\'93Two companies, Dollar Tree (which acquired Family Dollar in 2015) and Dollar General, have expanded their footprint from just under 20,000 stores in 2010 to nearly 30,000 stores in 2018, with plans to open yet another 20,000 stores in the near future. Dollar General alone opens roughly three stores a day.\'94\
\
\'93In the case of Family Dollar, for example, \'93\'92Food deserts\'92 are its sweet spot,\'94 notes Ann Natunewicz, an analyst at Colliers International. The absence of grocery stores is, in turn, a direct result of a history of racial discrimination by banks that have been less likely to lend to African American entrepreneurs and by supermarket chains that have tended to bypass black neighborhoods.\'94\
\
\'93By building massive, oversized supercenters in larger towns, Walmart found it could attract customers from a wide radius. Smaller towns in the vicinity often suffered the brunt of its impact as their Main Street retailers weakened and, in many cases, closed.\'94\
\
\'93Today the dollar chains are capitalizing on these conditions, much like an invasive species advancing on a compromised ecosystem. Local grocers that survived Walmart are now falling to Dollar General.\'94\
\
\'93Local shoppers lose nearby access to fresh food and they may also end up paying more for groceries. Dollar stores package many of their products in smaller quantities than items sold at traditional grocery stores. This cuts sticker prices, but often results in a higher costs per ounce.\'94\
\

\f0\b * Note the similarity in the Dollar Store per 10,000 Residents by State and our group study of obesity state distribution.
\f1\b0 \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Reference report: https://eig.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/05/recoverygrowthreport.pdf
\f0\b \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \'97\'97\

\f0\b CNN\

\f1\b0 https://www.cnn.com/2019/03/14/business/dollar-general-stores-family-dollar/index.html\

\f0\b Dollar General will open 975 stores this year\
\

\f1\b0 \'93Dollar General has been growing for years in rural America. Dollar General (DG) opened 900 stores in 2018 and 1,315 the year prior. It has more than 15,300 stores across the country and sales have increased for 29 straight years.\'94\
\
\'93The chain caters mainly to low-and-middle-income customers in rural and suburban areas. That helps it stand out against suburban chains like Dollar Tree (DLTR) and Family Dollar, which focuses on urban customers.\'94\
\
\'93Dollar General looks to build stores in rural areas where big box retailers or grocery stores are not within 15 or 20 miles. That gives the company close proximity to shoppers and compels more frequent store visits. The company says 75% of its locations are in towns with 20,000 or fewer people.\'94}